# IntroCI-Project1
Project 1 for MU Intro to Computationial Intelligence. The purpose is to create a genetic algorithm to minimize functions. Below is the abstract from the paper for the project.

Genetic algorithms are a search process that improve on a random search by implementing ideas from evolution into its search. It does this by first, initializing a population, selecting which of that population is deemed most fit, exploiting that population through a method called crossover, then exploring, using mutation. These four steps combine to produce a population that gets more “fit” over time, which is to say gets closer to an answer overtime. This experiment chooses to explore 3 crossover methods and compare each of them to one another. The three methods are 1-point-crossover, average-crossover, and Simplex Space Crossover (SPX). A genetic algorithm using a random initialization, tournament selection, and a restricted mutation function implemented using these crossover methods tests three benchmark functions to determine their ability to converge and maintain diversity. The three benchmark functions tested being an altered Ackley function, three-hump-camel function, and the cross-in-tray function. To analyze these methods, contour maps of the benchmark function overlayed with the position of individuals in a population were used, as well as line plots, and finally a boxplot of data from 100 runs of each combination of crossover and function. It was found that 1-point-crossover performed the worst in each test, while average-crossover and SPX performed similarly to one another throughout the tests. SPX seemed to perform the best overall. The methods used in this test can be expanded upon to test more methods using more functions in future.
